The presented statement recommends establishing a single national curriculum so that the structure and the content of courses taught at schools is unified for the whole nation until students enter college. A certain degree of unification is indeed needed to give students equal conditions and equal chances for college and consequently for their proffesional life. This recommendation, however, is going to far. Curriculum should be unified across the nation, but only until students enter high school (which in my country means until four years before college) to accommodate students who already know which field of study they would like to pursue.

Elementary schools should support diversity and give children the opportunity to meet others from various social or economical backgrounds. Because, although it is of course essential that kids are taught how to read and write, the key contribution of these institutions should be showing kids the world and the different aspects of it. I am strongly against expensive private elementary schools where a kid from a middle class family has no chance to gen admitted. All these institutions do is widen the gap between the rich and the poor, making it even more difficult for the latter to consequently succeed in college. A unified curriculum would decrease the attractivenes of private schools over the "ordinary" ones by putting the content taught at all schools on the same level and it would also give students an equal starting point to their life.

After the kid has explored all the different aspects of life at the elementary school and learned the basics of each field of study, he or she should be given the opportunity to choose a high school which would best suit his or her preferences. Forcing a kid who loves maths and a young artist to study the exact same courses is high school, where the difficulty of courses is higher than in elementary schools, is not a good idea. It would only lead to the boredom of the first kid in paint classes, and the suffering of the artistic kid in maths or physics. If a young student is not yet decided what field of study is „the one“, there is always a possibility to postpone this decision by applying to a general gymnasium, where all the subjects are taught with equal importance.

Unified curriculum in elementary schools is crucial to give students equal opportunities in the beginnings of their lives. In high schools, however, same curriculum for all schools loses its effect and students should be given more freedom when choosing the high school which best matches their interests and passions.
